### What is blockchain

Business networks today are often inefficient because each participant in the network keeps records, or a ledger, of all transactions between all the parties that the business interacts with.

This process is expensive because of duplication of effort and intermediaries adding costs for their services.

One solution to this problem is blockchain, which provides a shared ledger technology that allows any participant in the network to see the one system of record, or ledger.

By using blockchain technology, business can benefit from a more efficient transfer of goods and services.

The video modules in this course describe business networks and transactions, the problems that blockchain can solve, what blockchain is and how it works, and key use cases.

### The Business Backdrop

So let's get started with the first section. 

We observed that businesses never operate in isolation. 

They always work together with other businesses, with governments, with banks, with all types of organizations within markets. 

And effectively, wealth is generated by the flow of goods and services across these business networks. 

The undermarkets could actually also be of two different types. 

We can actually have an open market such as an auction, or a private market such as some things like a supply chain financing or bonds exchange. 

So effectively these business networks are fundamental to the application of Blockchain, as I'll kind of describe as we go through the rest of the presentation. 

So assets are transferred across the business network. 

And we also observed the assets are of two different types, fundamentally. 

There are tangible assets like your house or your car. 

And there intangible assets like a piece of digital music, or a financial instrument such as a bond, or a piece of intellectual property. 

These would be examples of intangible assets.

And we also observe, on the right hand side of the screen, that cash is also an asset which has the interesting property of anonymity. 

Effectively, I don't know if I'm given a five Euro note, where that five Euro note came from and also where it's going to go to after I've owned it. 

So, ledgers are the key to effectively recording the flow of assets in and out of an organization. 

The ledger´s updated every time a transaction occurs. 

And for example, if I´m passing an asset between myself and another member of the business network, we both update our ledger when that transaction occurs. 

Usually, the flow of the asset, the transfer of the asset is governed by a contract. 

We also observe that these contracts can actually be very simple. 

Like, I give my car to another party or they could also be governed by a slightly more complicated form of contract. 

But effectively, as I said, ledgers are the key to this. 

They record which assets flow into and out of an organization. 

Now we haven't talked about Blockchain very much up to now. 

Let's actually bring Blockchain into the picture. 

Blockchain at the very highest level is a trusted, distributed ledger which has a shared set of business processes across all the members of the business network. 

That's it.

If someone asks you in the elevator, what is Blockchain? This is what we should actually effectively be telling them. 

### The Problem Area

So let's step back for a moment and look at how things operate today. 

Effectively, every member of the business network has their own copy of the ledger. 

And we're showing this here in different colors, around the different members of the business network. 

And as I mentioned previously, the ledger's updated every time an asset flows into the organization or goes out of the organization. 

Each member of the business network who is affected updates their ledger. 

This system's been around since the 13th century. 

Effectively, we've been incrementally digitizing a system that's basically centuries old. 

The good side of that is it's pretty well tried and tested, and it's in popular usage. 

The downside of it is it's inefficient, it's expensive, and it's vulnerable. 

Now what do I mean by that? 

Inefficient means that each of the different parties in the business network need to run their own form of the business process to update their ledger. 

Effectively, they're doing that in a duplicative way. 

It's expensive, in that if you were to do things like internal and external audit, it takes an awful lot of time and effort to do that across the business network. 

Some banks have told us that some 20, 2 0 percent of their time is actually spent in the internal and external audit function because it's so complicated across the business network. 

And it's also vulnerable. 

It's vulnerable to either fraud, a malicious modification of the ledger, or to cyber attack or cyber incident. 

Or simple mistakes are actually very difficult to render, should they get into the business network.

So as I say, this is before blockchain comes along. 

If we bring blockchain into the picture, we have the situation where all of the members of the business network share a common ledger on the blockchain. 

And the ledger is replicated through peer-to-peer replication technologies across all the different members of this business network. 

But we actually use privacy services to determine who can see what on the business network. 

So for example, if participant A was actually exchanging an asset with participant B, each of these members would be able to see the full details of that transaction.

However, the bank, if it was not involved in that transaction, wouldn't be able to see the details. 

And alternatively, if participant A was transferring something with the bank, those two counter-parties will be able to see the full details of the transaction, and participant B wouldn't. 

This is all controlled, as I say, by privacy services. 

When we overlay blockchain onto this network, we end up with these really four important points at the bottom of the slide. 

Consensus means that we determine who within the business network gets to validate or approve a transaction. 

This is encoded into the blockchain system. 

We actually agenda, through the use of blockchain, the concept of provenance. 

Now this is effectively an audit trail, a complete record of who's owned what asset throughout its life cycle. 

This is all recorded on the blockchain.

And again, because we use privacy services to link one block in the blockchain with the next block. 

This means that its impossible to tamper with the blocks once they're actually written, which gives us the property of immutability, thus effectively boosting trust across the business network. 

And the final thing is, last but not least, is finality. 

And this comes really as a consequence of all the previous three. 

And it means that once something's committed into the blockchain, we've got one single system of record, one single system of truth across the business network. Which can effectively ensure that disputes are very easy to resolve should they occur. 

### Relation to Bitcoin

Okay, when we actually started on this blockchain journey, we found that a number of people we talked to got very confused between blockchain and Bitcoin, and hence putting this slide together. 

Being really very up front about it, Bitcoin is an unregulated shadow-currency which has the interesting property of anonymity. 

We don't know who we're passing a Bitcoin to. 

We don't know who we're receiving a Bitcoin from. 

And also, because this is effectively to achieve that anonymity, it's very compute resource intensive to make the Bitcoin network work.

However, it is the biggest, the first live use of blockchain in anger. 

So Bitcoin is actually a very important reference point. 

But we're really interested in not in these sensitive resistant shadow currencies, we're interested in blockchain for business. 

And this differs from Bitcoin in three really, really important areas. 

The first is, we prioritize identity over anonymity. 

This means that everyone in the business network knows who they're dealing with. 

So it's actually very clear who our counterparts are. 

But we also prioritize selective endorsements over proof of work, which means that with the blockchain that we're interested in, we get to choose who in the business network validates a particular transaction. 

And this is much, much more computationally efficient than the resource incentive proof of work that's associated with Bitcoin.

And finally, we're actually looking at a very, very broad set of assets and not cryptocurrency. 

There is a really interesting paper around it. 

People were interested in the different types of digital currency and the difference of digital currency from cryptocurrency. 

There is really an interesting paper that if you look in the speaker notes of this presentation will actually be very clear and you can actually get a link to it. 

But if your customer is interested in the details there, we've actually got extra resources available about that. 

So I hope this explained the difference between Bitcoin and the blockchain for Business that IBM is really interested in. 

### Requirements for a Blockchain in a Business Environment

Now looking at blockchain for business, there are four really important blocks that actually or components that form blockchain for business. 

The first we've talked a lot about, the shared ledger. 

This is effectively a way an append only distributed system of record that is used across the business network, shared across the business network. 

We've also talked a couple of instances about privacy services and we talked about how privacy services control who can see what across the business network and also how privacy services you use to maintain this property of immutability across the blockchain. 

We've also talked indirectly about trust. 

We've actually talked about the fact that because the transactions were endorsed by selected members of the business network, that this has the effect of increasing the net trust within the business network. 

And also the fact that each member of the business network knows that they're sharing a common business process with the rest of the network also boosts trust. 

And the way that the business flow or the business logic is actually embedded in the blockchain is in the form of a smart contract.

Effectively a smart contract is taking the terms of a traditional contract, encoding them up in the form of shared business process and sharing them around this business network. 

So, those are the four fundamental components of blockchain. 

### Requirements Deep Dive

What I'm going to do in the next few slides is very quickly go through those in a little bit more detail. 

I think I've probably covered them to a degree, so we can probably quite quickly go through these slides. 

If we look at the shared ledger to start with, I think I've covered already the shared ledger records, what assets are transferred around the business network. 

All the participants in the business network have their own copy of this distributed ledger. 

But we have a section of concept of permission in the block chain network so we can actually control who can see what parts of the ledger. 

And it becomes the shared system of record across the business network. 

Again, with the net benefit of increasing the trust within that network. 

We've mentioned up to now smart contract. 

Smart contracts are the way of encoding and sharing the shared business process around the business network.

Smart contracts are produced by taking the English contract encoding that in computer readable language. 

The contracts will also be verified and signed when they're distributed across the business network. 

The interesting aspect of them, and this really take some organizations a little while to realize once we start talking to them about it, is that once the smart contracts verified and distributed across the business network, it will execute. 

When the conditions are met, the contract will execute. 

So there's no concept of reneging on a smart contract. 

Once it's out there, it will happen. 

We've talked about privacy quite a lot but just recapping on privacy services, this really means that it's a way of controlling the confidentiality within the block chain. 

Making sure that people can only see the parts of the distributed ledger that are relevant to them and their way of doing business. 

It also means that it gives us a way of actually making sure that blocks in the block chain are tied together in an immutable fashion, so the block chain becomes tamperproof. 

So really, privacy services are core to the whole concept of block chain for business. 

And finally, trust. 

Trust is a really interesting concept and it really just need a little bit of thinking about. 

But effectively, the way we do this in block chain for business is, selected members from the business network endorse or validate that a particular transaction occurs, and we decide that on a transaction by transaction basis. 

And then when these transactions are endorsed, they will actually be added to the block chain. 

But this gives us a concept of actually having a verifiable audit trail of everything that's who's owned what across the business network from the time it was created and put onto the block chain. 

And this is achieved through these four terms of consensus, provenance, immutability, and finality, that I mentioned earlier on in the presentation. 

We'll learn a lot about trust and how we actually do that and make it real as we go through the subsequent modules in this series where we're going to drill down to a lot of these concepts in a lot more detail. 